# U-Net

Why U-Net is able to learn well from limited amount of training data and get a satisfactory accuracy rate, this question aroused my interest on it after I read the introduction of U-Net yesterday. 

Different from other images, biomedical images have elastic deformations, as I said yesterday these deformations used to be the most common variation in tissue, however, not only because of this, but also because these deformations are easy to be simulated, data augmentation can play a vital role in training these biomedical segmentation network with few available images. Tomorrow I will read the paper[1] to learn about data augmentation.

U-Net is modified from FCN, but one important modification is that U-Net has a lot of channels in the upsampling part, authors say this "allow the network to propagate context information to higher resolution layers", but why 1⃣️❓, I don't understand right now, after I get it right, I will write the explanation at the bottom. 

As authors say, another challenge in cell segmentation tasks is the separation of touching objects of the same class, because if there are many cells, they will be close together, then it is hard to separate them from each other, let alone if they are of the same class. To solve this problem, authors propose the use of weighted loss, they describe it as "where the separating background labels between touching cells obtain a large weight in the loss function". What does this mean 2⃣️❓ OK, this is the second question.

Well, today I get two questions for myself. I see them as rewards and I will figure them out later(❗️I have added them into Issues, answers will be there). U-Net is quite interest, after I get a TX2 from Prof. Zhang, I will make my own one, tune and train it. 

## References
1. Jason Wang, Luis Perez: The Effectiveness of Data Augmentation in Image Classification using Deep Learning


