# U-Net

U-Net is named for its architecture shape, as it is composed by a contracting path and a expanding path, which both are nearly symmetric.

In the paper[1] that presented U-Net, authors state that in recent years, DCNNs have gained great success in visual recognition tasks. While success needs large training sets, however, in some fields, training images are not enough, especially in biomedical fields. Few images mean little training data that limits the availability of models with high performance.

From what has been discussed above, we can guess the U-Net's merits. Yes, it can be trained with few training data sets. Moreover, U-Net outperforms the previous convolutional networks, and it can run faster as well.

One idea in U-Net architecture is that they use successive layers composed by upsampling operators in the contracting path to increase the resolution of images, so the high resolution features can be combined with upsampled output. This enable the following layers to make out more precise output. (I cannot understand more detailed mechanism illustrated in this paper, and will find more information tomorrow)

And one feature of U-Net is that it can learn invariance to deformations in images, authors say this is quite vital in biomedical fields, for deformation is particularly common in tissue. The "value of data augmentation for learning invariance" has been proved by other fellows[2] in the field of unsupervised feature learning. (I will read related paper next time)


## References
1. Olaf Ronneberger, Philipp Fischer, Thomas Brox: U-Net: Convolutional Networks for Biomedical Image Segmentation. 2015.
2. Dosovitskiy, A., Springenberg, J.T., Riedmiller, M., Brox, T.: Discriminative un-supervised feature learning with convolutional neural networks. In: NIPS (2014) 